# ADR 002: Enclave Code

## Changelog
* 10-03-2020: Initial Draft
* 11-03-2020: Decision based on Slack discussion

## Context
The prototype enclave code in Rust has been developed using Apache Teaclave SGX SDK, which wraps Intel SDK
and follows its development and build model. In short, one should separate out enclave code into "trusted" ECalls
(executed inside an enclave) and "untrusted" OCall (executed outside an enclave) -- one uses a set of 
Intel SDK tools for generating C ABI shims, signing etc.
As the enclave execution is different (e.g. one can't do syscalls, but needs to call dedicated ocalls),
one cannot use most parts of the Rust x86 standard library there and needs to replace it with the one from Apache Teaclave SGX SDK. These facts lead to a complicated build process which involves maintaining a set of patched Rust crates. Code sharing between "non-SGX" and "SGX" becomes tricky due to the current Cargo limitations.

Fortanix EDP is an alternative SDK, independent of Intel SDK (only requires Intel PSW components, e.g. AESM), 
which is a Tier 2 supported platform in Rust nightly compiler. Instead of operating on "C ABI", EDP involves writing a 
Rust application that is compiled for "x86_64-fortanix-unknown-sgx" target ("sgxs" files).
These files can be loaded using a "runner" which one can customize. At this moment, the application cannot do any I/O besides opening TCP sockets. All that is achieved with "OCalls" in Intel SDK, hence, must be achieved by processing byte streams.
For isolation, EDP allows the runner to implement so called "user extensions" where the runner can expose some functionality to the enclave via some chosen names (that the enclave code will use in opening a TCP connection instead of normal "hostname/ip:port" strings). The build process with Fortanix EDP tends to be simpler due to this blackbox "library OS-like" approach.

Moving forward from the prototype enclave code, we will need a robust attested secure channel (e.g. TLS) in the enclave code.
Given that, the "trusted" code dependencies will naturally contain at least:

* TCP stack
* TLS or equivalent cryptography stack
* concurrency management
* serializing and deserializing various binary and text formats

Overall, the amount of code dependencies due to the "bundled" EDP standard library is not that different from what one will need to maintain for Apache Teaclave SGX SDK. 

## Decision
The code will be progressively moved to EDP across different PRs:
* unsealing needs to be implemented in Rust: parsing the payloads from Intel SDK and EDP's sealing key derivation and aes-gcm crate.
* attestation primitives need to be implemented in Rust: e.g. "rgsx_verify_report" from Intel SDK (that computes CMAC of report data)
* attestation proxy that forwards requests between enclave code and IAS or DCAP
* runner with zMQ to replace tx-query: the usercall extension will bridge the zMQ connection requests and replies
* other implementation work: "transaction bootstrapping enclave" work may begin with enclave-to-enclave connections leveraging the above
* port tx-validation: add a runner to chain-abci that will load tx-validation's sgxs and relay the the requests

## Status

Accepted

## Consequences

### Positive

* easier build process
* everything in Rust
* better performance due to low overhead enclave entry/exit
* simplified development and concurrency management
* easier to check and audit, as the user input to the enclave is limited to a byte stream
* better integration with Rust tooling: enclave code could live in the same workspace; standard unit testing etc.
* potential Windows support

### Negative
* extra work: as mentioned above, high-level operations (such as attestation primitives or unsealing) are missing,
but there are other missing essential functionality, e.g.:
- AESM client doesn't support nonces and unlinkable signatures: https://github.com/fortanix/rust-sgx/issues/116
* as noticeable from some of the Github issues, the team behind EDP is small (when compared to Intel), so 
it takes time get even basic functionality done in the near term (e.g. [be able to pass command line arguments](https://github.com/fortanix/rust-sgx/issues/136)) and it may be an issue with security-related patches
* code signing: currently, there's no two-step signing with HSM: https://github.com/fortanix/rust-sgx/issues/184 (on the other hand, signing "sgxs" should be simpler than signing SGX ELF binaries)
* single company backing it: even though it seems good in the near term, the code and future continuity do not have the same terms as e.g. Apache Foundation
* missing tools: even though one may use Rust tooling, there are some enclave-specific parts that do not yet have an equivalent to Intel SDK, e.g. needed heap memory estimation https://github.com/fortanix/rust-sgx/issues/95
* C dependencies: we do not expect to have many C dependencies, besides a cryptographic library (that should be "no_std"-friendly), in enclave code, but if we ever need to, it may not be easily possible

### Neutral
* less control and flexibility: this is both positive (less error-prone) and negative (e.g. it may be complex to get C dependencies in)
* forked ring: https://github.com/briansmith/ring/pull/738 As one cryptographic library needed for many secure channels (TLS, noise, ...), one may need to use a custom fork for the time being (similarly to Apache Teaclave SGX SDK)
* no simulation mode: for attested TLS functionality, one needs to test in HW mode anyway. For "simulation", one can just compile the same Rust code to standard x86 targets.
* blackbox "library OS-like" approach: as mentioned before, one does not have a fine-grained control over how the enclave code is built and what is bundled with it. This is both positive (simpler development) and negative (potentially some unexpected issues in the bundled code).
* nightly-only: presumably, one can build code utilizing Apache Teaclave SGX SDK on stable using Xargo (or perhaps some future version of Cargo / Rust tooling), but so far, we never attempted so

## References

* Teaclave SGX SDK: https://github.com/apache/incubator-teaclave-sgx-sdk
* Fortanix EDP: https://edp.fortanix.com
* TVM switch discussion: https://github.com/apache/incubator-tvm/issues/2887#issuecomment-481865630
* Oasis: https://github.com/oasislabs/oasis-core/issues/1364#issue-403828330
* Teaclave author's older rant: https://github.com/dingelish/SGXfail/blob/master/05.md (response: https://github.com/apache/incubator-tvm/issues/2887#issuecomment-492752317 )
* Rust-lang discussion: https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/how-was-sgx-target-selected/